TFT_CompBuilder
# Teamfight Tactics Team Composition Generator
## Game Background
  Teamfight Tactics is a game made by Riot Games. This game is an 'auto-battler' where you build teams of characters and battle other players' teams over several rounds. Characters are called "champions" and each champion has a few attributes called traits. Many champions share traits, so when you build a team, the game keeps track of each trait's total across all champions in the team. Each trait also has milestones which give teams a bonus when reached. The milestones are reached by having enough of the trait in your team. For example, the "Guardian" trait has milestones for when 2, 4, or 6 champions have the trait, and provides an increasingly powerful defensive bonus to your team the higher the milestone your team has reached. These differing levels of each trait milestone are called trait tiers. When just the first milestone of a trait is reached, the trait is considered active. One of the main points of engagement for Teamfight Tactics is the strategy and planning that goes into making a team with many active and useful traits, and the former of the two is the basis of this program.
  
## Purpose
  In the game there is a rare bonus called Stand United (recieved through a different system unrelated to traits and champions) that gives more power based on the number of active traits in your team. Every time Teamfight Tactics releases a new Set, rotating in a different pool of champions and traits in the game, I like trying to find the compositions with the most active traits possible in the case that I do recieve this bonus, apart from the fact that it is just cool to see a large amount of active traits for my team in a game. Until now, I have been manually building team compositions through trial and error to find the teams with the most active traits using tools such as https://app.mobalytics.gg/tft/comp-builder and https://tftactics.gg/team-builder. Eventually I had the idea that I could automate this process and practice my programming skills at the same time, and thus this program was born.
  
 ## Explanation
  Right now this program displays input and output in the IDE terminal. This program is currently meant to find the possible team compositions in Teamfight Tactics that have the most active traits, given a target composition size, list of champions and their traits, and a list of traits and their milestones. There are two main ways to measure traits: by counting the traits that are simply active, or by counting the tiers of each active trait, the total number of trait milestones reached. This program can be configured to find comps using either method. For the current Set 7 of Teamfight Tactics, the number of all the possible combinations of champions for a team composition of size n is given by the equation $\frac{7\cdot47!}{\left(49-n\right)!\left(n-2\right)!}+\frac{51!}{\left(51-n\right)!n!}$ (This equation does not count team compositions that have traits that cancel each other out, such as a composition having both "Dragon" and "Scalescorn"). If the program were to analyze all the team compositions of a standard maximum size of 9, it would have to build and check over 3.48 BILLION compositions! Clearly this is way too much so I devised an algorithm to prune many of the unneeded compositions, which is in the file TeamComposition.cpp in the function generateComps(). Currently my algorithm can find the team compositions of size 9 with their highest active trait count of 11 in just under 2 minutes on my machine.

## Future
  Right now this program accomplishes all that I wanted it to, but in the future I could add more settings to exclude certain champions from the compositions generated, or force generated compositions to have a certain trait. The algorithms gates were are determined experimentally through trial and error, so maybe I could make another algorithm to determine the correct gates for the comp generating algorithm. I would also like to make a non IDE terminal interface for the program to get input and give output.

## Terminology
 - Teamfight Tactics (TFT) - The name of the game where you build team compositions with champions and their traits.
 - Set - The current rotation of champions and traits available in Teamfight Tactics. This comp-builder program is currently configured to TFT's 7th Set. To not be confused with the data structure, this Set is referred to with capital S in code comments.
 - Team Composition (comp) - A set of champions. Typically a comp will not have more than 9 slots for champions, and this program is based around that. 
 - Champion (champ) - A character in the game that has traits and takes up space in a comp, typically only 1 slot but sometimes 2.
 - Trait - A characteristic of a champion. Team compositions have amounts of traits equal to the traits' totals across the champions in the team composition. A team composition passes a trait milestone once it has enough of the trait to reach the number indicated on the milestone.
 - Trait Tiers (tiers) - The amount of trait milestones that a team composition has reached or passed.
